docs/src/content/docs/features/admin-framework.md, before:

---
title: Admin Framework
description: A guide on using the Admin Framework in plugins.
---

## Admin Framework

CounterStrikeSharp has a basic framework which allows plugin developers to assign permissions to commands. When CSS is initialized, a list of admins are loaded from `configs/admins.json`.

## Adding Admins

Adding an Admin is as simple as creating a new entry in the `configs/admins.json` file. The important things you need to declare are the SteamID identifier and the permissions they have. CounterStrikeSharp will do all the heavy-lifting to decipher your SteamID. If you're familar with SourceMod, permission definitions are slightly different as they're defined by an array of strings instead of a string of characters.

```json
{
  "ZoNiCaL": {
    "identity": "76561198808392634",
    "flags": ["can_manipulate_players", "admin_messages"]
  }
}
```

You can also manually assign permissions to players in code with `AddPlayerPermissions` and `RemovePlayerPermissions`. These changes are not saved to `configs/admins.json`.

## Assigning permissions to a Command

Assigning permissions to a Command is as easy as tagging the Command method (function callback) with a `RequiresPermissions` attribute.

```csharp
[RequiresPermissions("can_execute_test_command", "other_permission")]
public void OnMyCommand(CCSPlayerController? caller, CommandInfo info)
{
    ...
}
```

CounterStrikeSharp handles all of the permission checks behind the scenes for you.

Commit message:

docs: add information about flags and standard flags

docs/src/content/docs/features/admin-framework.md, after:

---
title: Admin Framework
description: A guide on using the Admin Framework in plugins.
---

## Admin Framework

CounterStrikeSharp has a basic framework which allows plugin developers to assign permissions to commands. When CSS is initialized, a list of admins are loaded from `configs/admins.json`.

## Adding Admins

Adding an Admin is as simple as creating a new entry in the `configs/admins.json` file. The important things you need to declare are the SteamID identifier and the permissions they have. CounterStrikeSharp will do all the heavy-lifting to decipher your SteamID. If you're familar with SourceMod, permission definitions are slightly different as they're defined by an array of strings instead of a string of characters.

```json
{
  "ZoNiCaL": {
    "identity": "76561198808392634",
    "flags": ["@css/changemap", "@css/generic"]
  }
}
```

You can also manually assign permissions to players in code with `AddPlayerPermissions` and `RemovePlayerPermissions`. These changes are not saved to `configs/admins.json`.

## Assigning permissions to a Command

Assigning permissions to a Command is as easy as tagging the Command method (function callback) with a `RequiresPermissions` attribute.

```csharp
[RequiresPermissions("@css/slay", "@custom/permission")]
public void OnMyCommand(CCSPlayerController? caller, CommandInfo info)
{
    ...
}
```

CounterStrikeSharp handles all of the permission checks behind the scenes for you.

### Standard Permissions

Because the flag system is just a list of strings associated with a user, there is no real list of letter based flags like there was previously in something like SourceMod. This means as a plugin author you can declare your own flags, scoped with an `@` symbol, like `@roflmuffin/guns`, which might be the permission to allow spawning of guns in a given command.

However there is a somewhat standardised list of flags that it is advised you use if you are adding functionality that aligns with their purpose, and these are based on the original SourceMod flags:

```shell
@css/reservation # Reserved slot access.
@css/generic # Generic admin.
@css/kick # Kick other players.
@css/ban # Ban other players.
@css/unban # Remove bans.
@css/vip # General vip status.
@css/slay # Slay/harm other players.
@css/changemap # Change the map or major gameplay features.
@css/cvar # Change most cvars.
@css/config # Execute config files.
@css/chat # Special chat privileges.
@css/vote # Start or create votes.
@css/password # Set a password on the server.
@css/rcon # Use RCON commands.
@css/cheats # Change sv_cheats or use cheating commands.
@css/root # Magically enables all flags and ignores immunity values.
```
